README.md, before:

# ISP2021-cad2cav
This is the github project for the F1Tenth Independent Study Projects 2021. In this project we want to plan the paths for multi-agent given a prior of an environment like a blueprint of the building’s floor plan.

![](docs/img/unreal.gif)
![](docs/img/automapper.gif)

## System Requirements
- Linux Ubuntu (tested on 20.04 LTS)
- ROS Noetic
- GCC 5+/Clang 5+ (support for C++17)

## Software Requirements
- Boost 1.71
- LibConfig++ 1.5.0
- [OpenCV 4.4.0](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/tree/4.4.0)
- [Google OR-Tools 8.2](https://github.com/google/or-tools/releases/tag/v8.2)
- [OSQP 0.6.2](https://github.com/oxfordcontrol/osqp/releases/tag/v0.6.2)
- [OSQP-Eigen 0.6.3](https://github.com/robotology/osqp-eigen/releases/tag/v0.6.3)
- [METIS 5.1.0](http://glaros.dtc.umn.edu/gkhome/metis/metis/overview)

This project also depends on another UE4 software that provides initial landmark locations for the planner to plan. One should also have the following:
- [shineyruan/unreal_levine_4](https://github.com/shineyruan/unreal_levine_4)
- Autodesk Revit 2019
- Autodesk AutoCAD 2019
- Unreal Engine 4.23.1

First run and install the following packages from Ubuntu repository:
```bash
sudo apt install libconfig++-dev libboost-all-dev libmetis-dev google-mock libgmock-dev
```

Then install other dependencies (OpenCV, Google OR-Tools, OSQP, OSQP-Eigen) by building from source manually.

**NOTE. The `graph_partitioner` package provides 2 different ways of building Google OR-Tools. Please check out [this README](https://github.com/mlab-upenn/ISP2021-cad2cav/tree/main/graph_partitioner) for more details.**

## Installation
1. This repo serves as a collection of ROS packages and you can plug it directly into any Catkin workspaces.
```bash
mkdir -p ~/catkin_ws/src
cd ~/catkin_ws
catkin_init_workspace
cd src && git clone --recursive https://github.com/mlab-upenn/ISP2021-cad2cav.git && cd ..
```
Note that this project contains multiple large repositories (Cartographer SLAM, Google OR-Tools) and it might take a considerable amount of time to build for the first time. It is recommended to use [Ninja over Make](https://ninja-build.org/manual.html#_comparison_to_make) for faster compiling speed. `catkin_make_isolated` is also required for Cartographer SLAM as it contains non-ROS packaged subdirectories.

To build the project, run
```bash
catkin_make_isolated --install --use-ninja
source install_isolated/setup.bash
```

2. Developers of this project should also have Unreal Engine 4.23.1 installed in the system. From this point onwards, we assume that your UE4 is cloned and installed in directory `${UE4_ROOT}`.
```bash
cd ~
git clone --recursive https://github.com/shineyruan/unreal_levine_4
```

One can check the installation of UE4 by trying to open the project in UE4 Editor:
```bash
cd ${UE4_ROOT}/Engine/Binaries/Linux
./UE4Editor ~/unreal_levine_4/Levine_4.uproject
```

## Running the code
1. **Get landmark locations from UE4 gameplay.** Open the UE4 project and hit "Play". During gameplay, one should right-click on the landmarks in UE4 scene and the game would automatically save their locations in `~/unreal_levine_4/csv/actorLocation.csv`. For more details, please check out [shineyruan/unreal_levine_4](https://github.com/shineyruan/unreal_levine_4).
2. **Copy the CSV file into ROS project.**
```bash
cp ~/unreal_levine_4/csv/actorLocation.csv ~/catkin_ws/src/ISP2021-cad2cav/auto_mapping_ros/csv
```
3. **Run Automapper coverage sequence creator** to generate waypoint sequences for vehicles to follow. 
```bash
roslaunch auto_mapping_ros coverage_sequence_creator.launch
```
Click on the pop-up window to specify the location of the first-3 landmarks in UE4 scene. This step is meant to calculate the transformation of coordinates from UE4 scene to ROS map. When the program finishes, you should have multiple files `csv/sequence_1.csv`, `csv/sequence_2.csv`, depending on how many vehicles you have specified.

4. **Run the Automapper simulations.**
In Terminal 1:
```bash
roslaunch f110_simulator simulator.launch
```
In Terminal 2:
```bash
roslaunch auto_mapping_ros auto_mapping_ros.launch
```





## Folder Structure
To be continued...
<!-- All main scripts depend on the following subfolders:

1. Folder 1 contains the files for xxx...
2. Folder 2 contains the files for... -->


## Files
To be continued...
| <!--    |                                | File | Description |
| ------- | ------------------------------ |
| main.py | Is used to start the algorithm |
| test.py | Is used to create the results  |      | -->         |

Commit message:

move object detection code to on-board repo

README.md, after:

# ISP2021-cad2cav
This is the github project for the F1Tenth Independent Study Projects 2021. In this project we want to plan the paths for multi-agent given a prior of an environment like a blueprint of the building’s floor plan.

![](docs/img/unreal.gif)
![](docs/img/automapper.gif)

## System Requirements
- Linux Ubuntu (tested on 20.04 LTS)
- ROS Noetic
- GCC 5+/Clang 5+ (support for C++17)

## Software Requirements
- Boost 1.71
- LibConfig++ 1.5.0
- [OpenCV 4.4.0](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/tree/4.4.0)
- [Google OR-Tools 8.2](https://github.com/google/or-tools/releases/tag/v8.2)
- [OSQP 0.6.2](https://github.com/oxfordcontrol/osqp/releases/tag/v0.6.2)
- [OSQP-Eigen 0.6.3](https://github.com/robotology/osqp-eigen/releases/tag/v0.6.3)
- [METIS 5.1.0](http://glaros.dtc.umn.edu/gkhome/metis/metis/overview)
- [ROS Integration for Cartographer SLAM](https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

This project also depends on another UE4 software that provides initial landmark locations for the planner to plan. One should also have the following:
- [shineyruan/unreal_levine_4](https://github.com/shineyruan/unreal_levine_4)
- Autodesk Revit 2019
- Autodesk AutoCAD 2019
- Unreal Engine 4.23.1

This project also has an on-board part that is **only meant to be compiled on an F1TENTH vehicle**. To checkout the code, please refer to [this repo.](https://github.com/shineyruan/cad2cav_onboard)

First run and install the following packages from Ubuntu repository:
```bash
sudo apt install libconfig++-dev libboost-all-dev libmetis-dev google-mock libgmock-dev
```

Then install other dependencies (OpenCV, Google OR-Tools, OSQP, OSQP-Eigen) by building from source manually.

**NOTE. The `graph_partitioner` package provides 2 different ways of building Google OR-Tools. Please check out [this README](https://github.com/mlab-upenn/ISP2021-cad2cav/tree/main/graph_partitioner) for more details.**

## Installation
1. This repo serves as a collection of ROS packages and you can plug it directly into any Catkin workspaces.
```bash
mkdir -p ~/catkin_ws/src
cd ~/catkin_ws/src
catkin_init_workspace
git clone --recursive https://github.com/mlab-upenn/ISP2021-cad2cav.git
cd ..
```

2. Please follow the [official documentation for Cartographer SLAM](https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) to install the latest `cartographer_ros` package in the source folder.

3. To build the project, run
```bash
cd ~/catkin_ws
catkin_make_isolated --install --use-ninja
source install_isolated/setup.bash
```
Note that this project contains multiple large repositories (Cartographer SLAM, Google OR-Tools) and it might take a considerable amount of time to build for the first time. It is recommended to use [Ninja over Make](https://ninja-build.org/manual.html#_comparison_to_make) for faster compiling speed. `catkin_make_isolated` is also required for Cartographer SLAM as it contains non-ROS packaged subdirectories.

4. Developers of this project should also have Unreal Engine 4.23.1 installed in the system. From this point onwards, we assume that your UE4 is cloned and installed in directory `${UE4_ROOT}`.
```bash
cd ~
git clone --recursive https://github.com/shineyruan/unreal_levine_4
```

One can check the installation of UE4 by trying to open the project in UE4 Editor:
```bash
cd ${UE4_ROOT}/Engine/Binaries/Linux
./UE4Editor ~/unreal_levine_4/Levine_4.uproject
```

To run the system on an F1TENTH car, one should make a Catkin workspace on the car and clone the following repo **on-board**:
```bash
mkdir -p ~/catkin_ws/src
cd ~/catkin_ws/src
catkin_init_workspace
git clone https://github.com/shineyruan/cad2cav_onboard.git
cd ..
catkin_make_isolated
```

## Running the code
1. **Get landmark locations from UE4 gameplay.** Open the UE4 project and hit "Play". During gameplay, one should right-click on the landmarks in UE4 scene and the game would automatically save their locations in `~/unreal_levine_4/csv/actorLocation.csv`. For more details, please check out [shineyruan/unreal_levine_4](https://github.com/shineyruan/unreal_levine_4).
2. **Copy the CSV file into ROS project.**
```bash
cp ~/unreal_levine_4/csv/actorLocation.csv ~/catkin_ws/src/ISP2021-cad2cav/auto_mapping_ros/csv
```
3. **Run Automapper coverage sequence creator** to generate waypoint sequences for vehicles to follow. 
```bash
roslaunch auto_mapping_ros coverage_sequence_creator.launch
```
Click on the pop-up window to specify the location of the first-3 landmarks in UE4 scene. This step is meant to calculate the transformation of coordinates from UE4 scene to ROS map. When the program finishes, you should have multiple files `csv/sequence_1.csv`, `csv/sequence_2.csv`, depending on how many vehicles you have specified.

4. **Run the Automapper simulations.**
In Terminal 1:
```bash
roslaunch f110_simulator simulator.launch
```
In Terminal 2:
```bash
roslaunch auto_mapping_ros auto_mapping_ros.launch
```





## Folder Structure
To be continued...
<!-- All main scripts depend on the following subfolders:

1. Folder 1 contains the files for xxx...
2. Folder 2 contains the files for... -->


## Files
To be continued...
| <!--    |                                | File | Description |
| ------- | ------------------------------ |
| main.py | Is used to start the algorithm |
| test.py | Is used to create the results  |      | -->         |
